---
sort: 10
---

# Python: Data Visualisation

```Matplotlib``` is **THE** Python library for creating visualisation. In addition to ```Matplotlib```, ```seaborn``` and ```bokeh``` are also widely used to create impressive visuals. In today's self study day, you will familiarise yourself with ```Matplotlib```, and if you do have time to spare, the other two packages. Further, get some hands-on practice with them by coding along in a jupyter notebook (e.g., using the titanic dataset), which will come in handy when you work on your creative brief.

# Today's learning objectives
- [ ] Learn ```Matplotlib```, a widely used data visualisation library in Python and apply it to create simple graphs and reports.

Please watch the following video to understand why a picture is worth a thousand words!

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5Zg-C8AAIGg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->

## Blended Learning - Introduction To Data visualization in Python (2 hours)

- [ ] Please begin the ```Introduction to Data visualisation with matplotlib``` course in DataCamp which you can find [here](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/introduction-to-data-visualization-with-matplotlib) and **complete chapters 1 and 2**. 

<center>
OR
</center>

- [ ] Alternatively, you can watch the following video on ```Matplotlib``` by ```DataCamp``` which you can find [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DAQNHzOcO5A).

> While you are watching the video, please follow along in a jupyter notebook and try to replicate the code that is being shown in the video.

- [ ] <mark>If you have past experience with matplotlib</mark>, Please complete the ```Introduction to interactive data visualisation in Python``` course in DataCamp which you can find [here](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/interactive-data-visualization-with-bokeh) and try to complete as much as you can. This course will take you through the basics of ```bokeh```, and you will be able to create simple interactive graphs.


## Creative Brief: Banijay Content Data [4 hours]

### Prepare environment

- [ ] in VS Code, open your project folder ```banijay_EDA```.
- [ ] Download the ```banijay_op1data_ratings_raw.csv``` file from [here](https://edubuas.sharepoint.com/:x:/t/2022-23BFAI1.P2-01ADSAI/EZ419BPk8bhJu8i0d0YBe1EBzUA0_i1L-KZ26NA6CQL9kw?e=22014e) and save it in the ```banijay_EDA``` folder.
- [ ]  create a Jupyter notebook named ```banijay_data_ratings.ipynb```. Save the notebook in the ```banijay_EDA``` folder.

### Data exploration

- [ ]  In the notebook ```banijay_data_ratings.ipynb```, load the ```banijay_op1data_ratings_raw.csv``` file into a pandas dataframe.
- [ ]  Explore the data and answer the following questions:
    - [ ]  How many rows and columns are there in the dataset?
    - [ ]  What are the column names?
    - [ ]  What are the data types of the columns?
    - [ ]  What are the unique values in the ```target group``` column?
- [ ] Create the following visualisations:
    - [ ]  Create a histogram of ```kdh1000```.
    - [ ]  Create a boxplot of ```kdh1000```.

    The following tasks are designed to be a challenge and we will revist them this Wednesday in the Datalab. Do not despair if you find them hard to solve. We will work through them together.

    - [ ]  Create a histogram of ```kdh1000``` for each ```target group``` focussing only on ```totaal``` ratings type.
    - [ ]  Using ```bokeh```, create a line chart of ```kdh1000``` for each ```target group``` focussing only on ```totaal``` ratings type. The line chart should be interactive and allow you to hover over the lines to see the exact values.

# Preparation for the DataLab

- [ ] Ensure that your Github contains the ```banijay_EDA``` folder with the 
    - [ ] ```banijay_data_content.ipynb``` notebook which reads in the raw content data, processes it, and saves the processed data.
    - [ ] ```banijay_data_ratings.ipynb``` notebook which reads in the raw ratings data.
    - [ ] A ```data``` folder containing the raw and processed data files.




