---
sort: 12
---

# Python: For society

Python can also be used to understand and solve societal problems. In today's lessons, we will explore how Python can be used to use social media as a medium to gain additional insight into society.

## Today's learning objectives

- [ ] Understand how social media data can be used to gain insight into society.
- [ ] Use Python to scrape social media data, in particular Twitter data.
- [ ] Understand how to use the Twitter API to scrape data.
- [ ] Understand how to perform basic sentiment analysis using Python.


## Social media as a mirror of society

Social media is a powerful tool that can be used to gain insight into society. In this section, we will explore how social media can be used to gain insight into society. To understand the influence social media has on society, and in particular, how it can be used to have a positive effect on society, please watch the following video:

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WRkahyMyy5I" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->

On the other hand, social media is also known to have negative effects on society. It is beyond the scope of this course to discuss the negative effects of social media in detail and it is definitely a highly polarising topic.

> Can you list down 5 positive and negative effects of social media on society? Use the coffee-corner on teams to discuss this with your peers and get a conversation going. 

## Twitter as a source of social media data

Twitter is a social media platform that is used by millions of people around the world. It is a great source of social media data that can be used to gain insight into society. In this section, we will explore how to use Python to scrape Twitter data. There are two ways of scraping Twitter data:

- [ ] Using the Twitter API
- [ ] Using a third-party library such as ```tweepy``` or ```twint```

> Can you list down the pros and cons of each approach? Think in terms of ease of use, privacy, and other criteria that come to your mind. Again, use the coffee-corner on teams to discuss this with your peers.

**For this project, to ensure compliance and inform the client about data governance, we will be using the Twitter API to scrape data.**

### Getting started

The [Twitter API](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/platform-overview) is a great way to scrape Twitter data. It is a paid service and you will need to create a Twitter developer account to use the API. To create a Twitter developer account, please follow the steps below. If you are stuck at any point, please see [here](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tutorials/step-by-step-guide-to-making-your-first-request-to-the-twitter-api-v2).

1. Go to the [Twitter developer portal](https://developer.twitter.com/en/apply-for-access) and click on ```Apply for access```. Hint: You will need to create a Twitter account if you do not have one already.
2. Fill in the form and click on ```Apply```. Please apply for an [essential](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/getting-started/about-twitter-api) account.
3. You will receive an email from Twitter with a link to your developer account. Click on the link to activate your account.
4. Once your account is activated, you will be able to create a Twitter app. Click on ```Create an app```.
5. Fill in the form and click on ```Create```.
6. You will be able to see your API keys and tokens. Please copy these keys and tokens and save them in a safe place. You will need these keys and tokens to use the Twitter API.

Please watch the following video to understand how to use the Twitter API to scrape data and code along.

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0EekpQBEP_8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->


# Assignment [4 hours]

Using the Twitter API, scrape data from Twitter. To make it interesting, pick a topic of your choice (e.g., a tv show) and upload it to Github using a data format of your choice (JSON, CSV, or PKL).

To complete this assignment, please refer the DataCamp course on [Analyzing Social Media Data in Python](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/analyzing-social-media-data-in-python). In particular, the first two chapters.

> For a bonus challenge, try to perform sentiment analysis on the data you scrape. You can use the [TextBlob](https://textblob.readthedocs.io/en/dev/) library to perform sentiment analysis. 


# Preparation for the DataLab

- [ ] Ensure that your Twitter developer account is activated and you have your API keys and tokens.
- [ ] Ensure that you have uploaded the data you scraped to Github.

