---
sort: 12
---

# Python: For society

Python can also be used to understand and solve societal problems. In today's lessons, we will explore how Python can be used to use social media as a medium to gain additional insight into society.

## Today's learning objectives

- [ ] Understand how social media data can be used to gain insight into society.
- [ ] Use Python to scrape social media data, in particular Twitter data.
- [ ] Understand how to use the Twitter API to scrape data.


## Social media as a mirror of society

Social media is a powerful tool that can be used to gain insight into society. In this section, we will explore how social media can be used to gain insight into society. To understand the influence social media has on society, and in particular, how it can be used to have a positive effect on society, please watch the following video:

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WRkahyMyy5I" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->

On the other hand, social media is also known to have negative effects on society. It is beyond the scope of this course to discuss the negative effects of social media in detail and it is definitely a highly polarising topic.

> Can you list down 5 positive and negative effects of social media on society? Use the coffee-corner on teams to discuss this with your peers and get a conversation going. Further, if you come across any interesting blog posts, documetaries, films etc. regarding this topic, please post them as well.

## Twitter as a source of social media data

Twitter is a social media platform that is used by millions of people around the world. It is a great source of social media data that can be used to gain insight into society. In this section, we will explore how to use Python to scrape Twitter data. There are two ways of scraping Twitter data:

- [ ] Using the Twitter API
- [ ] Using a web scraper (e.g. Selenium or BeautifulSoup)

> Can you list down the pros and cons of each approach? Think in terms of ease of use, privacy, and other criteria that come to your mind. After researching the pros and cons, use the coffee-corner on teams to discuss this with your peers and check if they have similar opinions to you.

**For this project, to ensure compliance and inform the client about data governance, we will be using the Twitter API to scrape data.**

## Twitters metrics

Twitter has several metrics that a crucial when analyzing the successes of social media performance. Twitter metrics are data points that you track to determine your success. Pretty often, multiple metrics are used together since relying on a single metric to determine a goal’s success doesn’t give the full picture.

Tweet metrics include:

•	__Impressions__ - times a user is served a Tweet in timeline or search results.

•	__Retweet__ is a re-posting of a Tweet.

•	__Replies__ - a reply is a response to another person's Tweet.

•	__Likes__ are represented by a small heart and are used to show appreciation for a Tweet.

•	__Quote Tweets__ - is a retweet that has been made with a comment.

•	__URL link clicks__ - times a user liked the Tweet.

•	__User profile clicks__ - how many times someone reading the Tweet clicked on the author's Twitter profile.

However, using Twitter API, you are only allowed to access public data.  Public metrics: Metrics’ totals that are available for anyone to access on Twitter, such as the number of likes, retweets, replies, and quote tweets.  

Impressions, URL link clicks and user profile clicks are private metrics and can’t be accessed using Twitter API. But you can use some mathematical formulas to calculate some important metrics.

Engagement rates are the most important thing in marketing nowadays because it indicates the popularity of the content. Engagement rate can help you discern which posts are performing well, what content is resonating with your audience, and how to effectively communicate your success, no matter how many followers your account has. Engagement rate provides a way to determine growth without vanity metrics, such as follower count.

There are a lot of ways to calculate Twitter engagement rate but for this assignment, we use the formula that is depending on the latest tweets because it gives real and more stable results. 

Overall engagement rate = (total Retweets+ total likes + total replies + total quite tweets\number of tweets) \ Total number of followers))* 100.

Engagement rate per post = (retweets + likes + replies +total quite tweets)/ total number of followers)) * 100.

Defining a good Twitter engagement rate is a very complicated matter, however, a lot of studies use the following:

•	An engagement rate between 0% to 0.5٪ is bad.

•	An engagement rate between 0.5٪ and 1٪ is good.

•	An engagement rate between 1٪  and more is excellent.

The more followers you have, the harder it is to achieve a high engagement rate. 

__What does a low engagement rate indicate?__

It usually indicates one of the following:

•	you are generally not active enough on Twitter.

•	your account has a high percentage of fake followers.

•	your tweets don’t interest the followers. your account has been affected by recent Twitter algorithm updates.


### Getting started

The [Twitter API](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/platform-overview) is a great way to scrape Twitter data. It is a paid service and you will need to create a Twitter developer account to use the API. To create a Twitter developer account, please follow the steps below. If you are stuck at any point, please see [here](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tutorials/step-by-step-guide-to-making-your-first-request-to-the-twitter-api-v2).

1. Go to the [Twitter developer portal](https://developer.twitter.com/en/apply-for-access) and click on ```Apply for access```. Hint: You will need to create a Twitter account if you do not have one already.
2. Fill in the form and click on ```Apply```. Please apply for an [essential](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/getting-started/about-twitter-api) account.
3. You will receive an email from Twitter with a link to your developer account. Click on the link to activate your account.
4. Once your account is activated, you will be able to create a Twitter app. Click on ```Create an app```.
5. Fill in the form and click on ```Create```.
6. You will be able to see your API keys and tokens. Please copy these keys and tokens and save them in a safe place. You will need these keys and tokens to use the Twitter API.


> For the creative brief, in tomorrow's DataLab you will work with a twitter dataset provided to you (because we have an academic licence which enables us to collect more data compared to an essential license). However, please complete the assignment for today as this will help you gain experience with scraping twitter data. Please use weeks 9 and 10 to conduct analyses on your data from twitter.

# Creative Brief EDA [4 hours]

> For the rest of today, please continue working on the exploration of the content and ratings dataset from yesterday. Do not hesitate to contact your peers using the teams coffee-corner or your mentor if you have any questions. 

# Assignment [3 hours]

Use the Twitter API to scrape data from Twitter using Python. To make it interesting, pick a topic of your choice (e.g., a tv show), scrape twitter data, and please remember to upload it to Github using a data format of your choice (JSON, CSV, or PKL).

To help you complete this assignment, please refer the DataCamp course on [Analyzing Social Media Data in Python](https://www.datacamp.com/courses/analyzing-social-media-data-in-python). In particular, the first two chapters.

If Datacamp is not a friend, please watch the following video (00:00 to 18:00 is relevant for this assignment) and code along.

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0EekpQBEP_8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->


# Preparation for the DataLab

- [ ] Read [this](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/metrics) to understand the metrics returned by Twitter.
- [ ] Read [this](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-api/data-dictionary/object-model/tweet) to understand the Tweet object returned by twitter.

