---
sort: 8
---

# 3. Data Lab 2: Python Pandas exercises

If you had succesfully completed the workshops this week, you should
now have:

- [x] Your Python IDE set-up (Anaconda and Jupyter Notebooks)
- [x] Familiarity with Python syntax
- [x] A basic understanding of variable assignment, conditionals, loops and functions
     in Python.
- [x] Familiarity with Python data types and data structures
- [x] Familiarity with Python ```pandas```
- [x] Familiarity with Python ```unittests```

In today's data lab, you will merge these concepts and solve the following use-cases using
Python.

For today, please work on your local python environment and do not forget to commit your changes to Github at the end of today.
<mark>These exercises are not auto-graded.</mark>

```warning
To organise your work today, please adhere to the following guide and naming convention. Note that some files are already incuded in your Github repos, while you are expected to create, and commit the other files to your repos.
```

Assignment  |  File_name  | Present on Github
-------------- |  ------------------------- | ------------------------- 
RIVM Vaccine Registration|	DataLab2.py | Yes
Pandas: a primer | PandasPrimer.ipynb | No
Titanic: an investigation  |	Titanic.ipynb | No
Unit testing  |  Titanic.py for functions | Yes
Unit testing  |  Titanic_test.py for tests    | Yes

## 1. RIVM Vaccine Registration

The following table indicates the vaccination schedule for people who
are not in medically at-risk or high-risk groups, who live at home and can
access the vaccination location on their own, and who do not work in healthcare

Year of Birth  |  Vaccine registration  |  Vaccine  | Location
-------------- |  ------------------------- | ----------| -------
1931 or earlier|	From 25 January 2021	    |BioNTech   |	Groningen
1932 - 1936	   |  From 29 January 2021	    |Pfizer     | Arnhem
1937 - 1941    |	From 5 February 2021	    |Pfizer 	  | Breda
1942 - 1946	   |  From 6 March 2021	        |Moderna	  | Harlingen
1947 - 1951	   |  From 6 April 2021	        |Moderna	  | Edam
1952 - 1955	   |  From 15 April 2021	      |AstraZeneca|	Amsterdam
1956 - 1957	   |  From 15 February 2021	    |AstraZeneca| Sittard
1958 - 1960    |  From 15 April 2021	      |Moderna    |	Rotterdam
1961 - 1971	   |  From 27 April 2021	      |Janssen    |	Groningen
1972 - 1981	   |  From early June 2021	    |Janssen    |	Arnhem
1982 - 1991	   |  From mid-June 2021	      |Moderna    | Breda
1992 or later  |  From mid-June 2021	      |BioNTech   |	Maastricht

**Write a Python function which prints out the location for a user supplied year of birth. Use a Pandas dataframe to store
and retrieve data. Last, check the ```test_DataLab2.py``` file on Github to see an example of an unit test to ensure that your code is working reliably.**

> hint: create a .csv file containing the data.

Use the following line of code to retrieve the location, given a Year of Birth (yob)

```python
# enter year of birth and store it in a variable yob
yob = <enter year of birth here in the same format as in the table>
# retrieve location based on yob
rvim_df.loc[rvim_df['Year_of_Birth'] == yob, 'Location'].item()
```

Look up the following:

- [ ] .loc [clicky](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/pandas/dataframe/loc)
- [ ] .item. Observe what happens if we remove it. Use type() to check the type of the object returned.



# 2. Pandas: a primer

## Creating and reading in .csv files

In this exercise, you will create a dummy dataset and learn how to read in one of the most commonly used file-formats (.csv)

1. Create a table in Excel with 15 rows and 3 columns ```Sex```, ```Age```, and ```Survived```.
2. Populate the dataframe with values of your choosing.

 - Sex can either be "Male", "Female", "Non-binary"
 - Age is a number
 - Survived is a binary value [1=Survived; 0 = Did not survive]

3. Save the file as "Titanic_dummy.csv"
4. Read in the dataset using ```pandas.read_csv()```.

> If you have issues reading in the file, please ensure that (a) the .csv file and the code are in the same directory AND/OR (b) you are using a comma to seperate the values. If you notice that your .csv file uses a ```;``` in place of a ```,```. please add the term ```sep = " ; "``` to your ```pandas.read_csv()``` command.


If you find yourself stuck, please read [Pandas Read Csv](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/pandas-read-csv).

## Exploring your datasets

In this exercise, you will learn to explore your datasets using inbuilt functions.

1. Print the column names using ```<your df name>.columns```.
2. Describe the dataset using ```<your df name>.info()``` and ```<your df name>.describe()```
3. Print the first few rows of the dataset using ```<your df name>.head()```.

## Dealing with Missing Data

In this exercise, you will use a dummy dataset your created and learn to detect and work with missing data.

1. Randomly delete some values in the "Titanic_dummy.csv" file.
2. Read in the dataset using ```pandas.read_csv()```.
3. Count the number of missing values using ```pandas.isna()```.
4. Replace the missing age values with the overall mean of age using ```pandas.fillna()```..


# 3. Titanic: an investigation

In this exercise, you will use Python ```pandas``` to investigate the Titanic
dataset. 

> Note: Use https://www.kaggle.com/c/titanic/data to download and explore the dataset. <br>
> <mark>Only download train.csv



Please answer the following questions (create a well-commented jupyter code block for each question):

1. How many rows and columns does the data contain?
2. Are there any missing values?
3. How many woman were on the ship?
4. What was the average age of all passengers on the ship?
5. Which sex had a higher chance of surviving the disaster?<br>

### An optional challenge
6. Group the data into age groups (young, adult, old) and find which age group
had the highest chance of survival?

  - ages less than or equal to 18 are classified as young.
  - ages greater than 18 but lesser than or equal to 60 are classified as adult.
  - ages greater than 60 are classified as old.

Click [here](https://gist.github.com/nbhushan/471067042347878e739df38138a9295c) to view the solution(s).

# 4. Unit testing

In this exercise, you will use the dummy dataset you created to verify your operations on the Titanic dataset.

Please Design unit tests to:

- [ ] ensure that you read in the dataset correctly (use the number of rows and columns as a test parameter)
- [ ] check if the function you created in the previous exercise to count the number of woman in the dataset returns the correct values, when you pass in the dummy dataset in place of the original dataset.
- [ ] check if the function you created in the previous exercise to return the average age of all passengers.

If you find yourself stuck, please read [The Turing Way](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/testing.html), in particular; the modules [Unit Testing](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/testing/testing-unittest.html) and [Test Driven Development](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/testing/testing-driven-development.html)

