---
sort: 8
---

# 3. Data Lab 2: Python data structures exercises

If you had succesfully completed the workshop assignments yesterday, you should
now have:

- [ ] Your Python IDE set-up (Anaconda and Jupyter Notebooks)
- [ ] Familiarity with Python syntax
- [ ] A basic understanding of variable assignment, conditionals, loops and functions
     in Python.
- [ ] Familiarity with Python data types and data structures
- [ ] Familiarity with Python ```pandas```
- [ ] Familiarity with Python ```numpy```

In today's data lab, you will merge these concepts and solve the following use-cases using
Python.

## 1. RVIM Vaccine Registration

The following table indicates the vaccination schedule for people who
are not in medically at-risk or high-risk groups, who live at home and can
access the vaccination location on their own, and who do not work in healthcare

Year of Birth  |  Vaccine registration  |  Vaccine  | Location
-------------- |  ------------------------- | ----------| -------
1931 or earlier|	From 25 January 2021	    |BioNTech   |	Groningen
1932 - 1936	   |  From 29 January 2021	    |Pfizer     | Arnhem
1937 - 1941    |	From 5 February 2021	    |Pfizer 	  | Breda
1942 - 1946	   |  From 6 March 2021	        |Moderna	  | Harlingen
1947 - 1951	   |  From 6 April 2021	        |Moderna	  | Edam
1952 - 1955	   |  From 15 April 2021	      |AstraZeneca|	Amsterdam
1956 - 1957	   |  From 15 February 2021	    |AstraZeneca| Sittard
1958 - 1960    |  From 15 April 2021	      |Moderna    |	Rotterdam
1961 - 1971	   |  From 27 April 2021	      |Janssen    |	Groningen
1972 - 1981	   |  From early June 2021	    |Janssen    |	Arnhem
1982 - 1991	   |  From mid-June 2021	      |Moderna    | Breda
1992 or later  |  From mid-June 2021	      |BioNTech   |	Maastricht

**Using Jupyter notebooks, write a Python function which prints out the vaccine registration date, vaccine
and location for a user supplied year of birth. Use a Pandas dataframe to store
and retrieve data.**

## 2. Titanic data investigation using Pandas.

In this exercise, you will use Python ```pandas``` to investigate the Titanic
dataset to answer the following questions:

1. Which class had a higher chance of surviving the disaster?
2. Which gender has a higher change of surviving the disaster?
3. Group the data into age groups (young, adult, old) and find which age group
had the highest chance of surviving?

> Hint: Use https://www.kaggle.com/c/titanic/data to download and understand the dataset.

## 3. Pythoshop:
- [ ] Create a numpy array **heart** with the following values as shown below:

```python
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

heart_img = np.array([[255,0,0,255,0,0,255],
              [0,255/2,255/2,0,255/2,255/2,0],
          [0,255/2,255/2,255/2,255/2,255/2,0],
          [0,255/2,255/2,255/2,255/2,255/2,0],
              [255,0,255/2,255/2,255/2,0,255],
                  [255,255,0,255/2,0,255,255],
                  [255,255,255,0,255,255,255]])
```

- [ ] visualize the array using the helper function

```python
def show_image(image, img_title):
  plt.imshow(image, cmap="gray")
  plt.title(img_title)
  plt.show()
```

> Can you figure out how the NumPy array heart_img creates that image you see? Take some time to think.

- [ ] subtract 255 from each value and observe what happens to the image when
you plot it
- [ ] save the modified array as a new numpy array **broken_heart**
- [ ] display the modified array along with the original array side-by-side.
- [ ] save the modified array as a image (e.g., .PNG).

> If you are now curious as to how a computer represents images, please watch the following video

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/15aqFQQVBWU?controls=0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->

We will cover this topic in more detail on Monday! Have a nice weekend :)


## 4. NFT!
Create your own 10X10 pixel art using numpy arrays. Start with greyscale
and extend it to RGB.

## Bonus assignment:
If you finish early, please watch the following video:
<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5rNu16O3YNE?controls=0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->
