---
sort: 3
---

# 3. Sampling Distributions

Even in this era of big data, gathering data from the whole population of interest is often too costly or just not practical. Instead, we use a sample of the population. A sample should ideally have the same characteristics as the population it is representing. There are several different methods of random sampling. However, regardless of the method used, if random sampling was applied, each member of a population initially has an equal chance of being selected for the sample.

Sampling introduces another source of variability we need to account for. You have come across one source of variability - variability in the data. For example, you might want to measure the height of your peers and to this end, collect 5 samples randomly. This gives you a dataset;

**x** = [145, 173.2, 187, 172.5, 186]

There is a clear variability in your dataset, and this is termed as variability in the data. 

However, imagine you performed this experiment for 5 days in a row. You would naturally end up with 5 different samples, each of which has variability in the data. Now here's where it becomes interesting, note that each of the sample can be summarized using a statistics - e.g., the sample mean. Because you now have 5 samples, and because they all have variability in the data, you will end up with 5 different values for the sample mean - and anytime we talk about a number that can take on several values, we are in the world of probabilities! This implies that your sample statistics (e.g., the mean) itself has a probability distribution associated with it.
Please watch this video to understand one of the most simple, yet profound, phenomenon in the world.

 <!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/z0Ry_3_qhDw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->



## Blended Learning: DataCamp

Please complete the following course and attach an evidence of completion to your learning log.

- [DataCamp - Sampling in R](https://app.datacamp.com/learn/courses/sampling-in-r)