---
sort: 3
---

# 3. Python for AI and Data Science

Python is a general purpose programming language that is now widely used for Data Science and AI applications. It is one of the fastest growing programming languages in the AI and Data Science Industry. Companies worldwide are using Python to gain insights from their data and add value to their business processes. Unlike Python tutorials from a computer science perspective, this module focuses on Python for AI and Data Science applications. Python comes with a set of libraries and you will gain hands on experience with some of the most popular libraries used in AI and Data Science. A Python library is a collection of saved code that someone else has designed. In this introductory module, you will learn how to use Python libraries to read, explore and visualise data. Further you will use jupyter notebooks to prototype your applications, and become familiar with Github for version control.

A fun fact is that Python was developed quite close to Breda! In 1990, Dutch software engineer Guido van Rossum created the language while working at the Centre for Mathematics and Computer Science (CWI) in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/7kn7NtlV6g0?controls=0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->

A few reasons why Python is a popular programming language for AI and Data Science are:
1. Python uses an easy-to-write, easy-to-read syntax.
2. In comparision to other languages, python is easy to set up and start prototyping your application.
3. There are several well maintained and active AI and data science libraries.
4. Using Jupyter notebooks, we can interactively develop applications.
5. Can be easily extended by adding new modules, implemented in other languages such as C or C++.
6. Is open source and runs anywhere, including Mac OS X, Windows, Linux, and Unix, with unofficial builds also available for Android and iOS.

Finally, Python is **FREE**!<br> It doesn't cost anything to download or use Python, or to include it in your application. Python can also be freely modified and re-distributed because while the language is copyrighted it's available under an open-source license [[1]](#1).
