---
sort: 1
---

# The scrum approach to project success

If you've spent any time in the data science world, you've likely heard of
agile and scrum—the popular framework for managing complex processes.
If this mysterious-sounding framework has piqued your interest,
this module can help provide you with a basic understanding of what scrum is
and how you can start implementing in your creative brief.

## Learning objectives
After this module, you will be able to:
- [ ] Understand the scrum and agile approach to project success.
- [ ] Understand the different roles involved and establish your scrum team.
- [ ] Set the vision for your project and plan a roadmap.
- [ ] Plan sprints and conduct daily standups.
- [ ] Access a sprint and conduct a sprint reflection.


## The agile revolution

The word scrum we're talking about is an adaptation of the word scrummage,
taken from the game rugby, but scrum from rugby, how does that work?
Well, in rugby, a scrummage, scrum for short, was the method used to restart
play in a match after a foul.
Visually, it's eight players from each team packed together with heads down,
all trying to take possession of the ball.
So, not exactly the poster child for project management,
but with a little imagination, it makes sense.

On a project team, the goal is to get the project done.
Historically, using traditional methods, this meant planning and designing
the whole project at the beginning and sticking to that plan with no variation.

In real life, project work is completely unpredictable.
It's impossible to know at the beginning exactly how a project will
unfold and how to best meet its unique challenges. The Agile Project Management
movement comes out of a desire to adapt in real time to the changing
circumstances that teams face, and this is where the rugby team comes in.

The founders of the Agile movement recognize that, in rugby, the object is to
move the ball down the field, one possession at a time, so why couldn't projects
do the same thing?
Why not change the focus from just winning the whole game to winning each and
every milestone and deliverable? These innovators co-opted the word scrum to
reflect this new approach, an approach that breaks the deliverables and
milestones into smaller pieces and gets the whole team together to focus
on just that one goal until it's done. Like in rugby, if the small individual
scores happened on a regular cycle, winning the game or delivering the project
would take care of itself, so the sporting word scrum has been transformed in
the last several years to have a new meaning. It means to run your projects
more like a rugby match, pursuing the small goals and deliverables
that will get your project done.

## Scrum - the leading agile product management methodology

Scrum takes the agile manifesto and its key principles and boils them down
to a very simple framework that encourages small scale focus and rapid learning
cycles. That's what fail fast really means, learn fast. With that in mind,
the basics of the framework are designed to encourage that fast feedback loop.

Scrum is much the same. With the agile principles as the guideposts and a
loose framework of activities executed on a regular, short schedule, your
project will be get up for success. In a nutshell, here's the scrum framework
in its simplest form. To start, the product owner has a prioritized backlog
of work for the team to do. Every two weeks or so, the team looks at the
backlog and decides what they can accomplish in the next two weeks.

<!-- blank line -->
<figure class="video_container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/b02ZkndLk1Y" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>
<!-- blank line -->



The team develops and tests their solution to the backlog items until they're
done and ready for use. At the end of the two weeks, the team demonstrates
their accomplishments to the product owner and stakeholders. Finally, they
reflect on how things went during the two weeks and they decide what they
can do to improve their work practices. That's it. The short timeframe and
the focus on a completed product at the end forces the the team to fail fast
or more appropriately, learn fast.

## Tools: Jira Project Management Software
At its core, Jira is software that assists with planning, tracking, reporting,
and releasing of projects. It started primarily as a tool for software development,
but over the last few years, it's been adopted in the AI and Data Science industry.


## Blended  Learning

- [ ] Please complete the ```Problems to Solve``` module in the Scrum course on
Linkedin Learning which you can find [here](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/scrum-the-basics).
