---
sort: 2
---

# Essential roles for scrum teams
There are three key roles that exist on every data science and AI scrum team:
- [ ] The product owner
- [ ] The scrum master
- [ ] Dev. team members

## The Product Owner
The product owner (PO) is the business representative on the team. They're not part time
team members. They show up every day, because they're contributing to the final
product every day. They review all the work the team completes, and
either accepts it or asks the team to make changes to ensure the highest value
is being delivered. On a scrum team, the PO is always ordering the work and
ensuring the team members clearly understand the details of the requests.
But that's only part of their job. They're also interacting on a daily basis
with the stakeholders. It's not enough for the PO to interact with the team.
They must also be in tune with all the changes that are occurring in the
business context. As a result, the PO is the keeper of the product vision.
He or she defines and manages the backlog of work to be done and the
prioritization of the those work items. Remember that scrum allows the scope
to be flexible. Since time and costs are locked, the PO is painfully aware
that the work must be continuously sorted to highest value first.
They'll also be pushing the team to complete as much work as possible
in each short delivery period, also termed a **sprint**.


## The Scrum Master
 The scrum master's main role is to balance the demands of the PO against the
 needs of the team. This role is the first safety valve to ensure teams are
 performing at a sustainable pace. We don't want them to get burned out before
 they reach the finish line. That's a big statement if you think about it.

 Scrum is a framework that doesn't value heroics by teams or individual team
 members. It values sustainability and open dialog on what can and cannot be
 reasonably accomplished. The scrum master is the most visible spokesperson for
 the team. Scrum masters value transparency. They'll devise charts and boards
 to share the team's progress with anyone who's curious or interested in how
 they're doing. They're also the first escalation point when something gets
 in the way for the team. The scrum master will work to remove any blockers
 until they're out of the way and the team can continue on.

 **In sum, while the PO focuses on what needs to be done,
 the scrum master focuses on how the team does the work.**

## The Development Team
In an AI and DS project, the dev. team generally consists of data scientists,
data engineers, analytics translators, application developers etc..


## Datalab Preparation 2

- [ ] Please complete the ```The Heart of the Framework``` module in the Scrum course on
Linkedin Learning which you can find [here](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/scrum-the-basics).

Please click next to view the rest of the material
