---
sort: 4
---

# Creating a Project Vision, Roadmap and Project Planning

A project without a vision - and a roadmap - to achieve that vision, is
doomed to fail!

The project vision is the map that will guide you and your team to your destination.
The product owner establishes this before any work begins.
The vision tells you, your team, everyone really, where you're going and what
valuable product or enhancement you'll deliver at the end to the client.

**To determine your project vision you're going to have a meeting with the product owner. This meeting scheduled in your respective calendars, please attend these at the given time! After that meeting, you're going to all have an online session together to create the roadmap together using Jira!**

The roadmap decomposes the project vision into small functional features or slices
of work that help us achieve the vision; it's like a high-level project planning. The roadmap is something we're going to create using Jira, a project management software environment.

## Blended  Learning

- [ ] Complete **the introduction, and chapter 1 and 2 from the ```Learning Trello Software``` course on
Linkedin Learning which you can find [here](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/trello-essential-training/what-is-trello?autoplay=true&u=36359204). 


## Today's objectives
After learning about Trello, take a look at each your project ideas and their respective materials such as your AI canvas, project pitch presentations and EDA; and for each idea come up with the following:
- [ ] Set the vision for your project in your project pitch presentation ([template if you didn't start yet]("./assets/BUas Powerpoint template.pptx")).
- [ ] Set-up Trello and populate the project page.
- [ ] Plan a roadmap (or [project timeline ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HrsQAiMS9G8)) in Trello.
- [ ] Take a look at tomorrow's objectives, and plan a stand-up and sprint planning meeting for tomorrow


Now that we've created the roadmap, we're ready for tomorrow! Tomorrow, we'll take our next step: planning our first sprint; it's like a low-level project planning. We're also going to learn more about these stand-ups we've been doing and we'll learn about doing a sprint retrospectives after we've wrapped up a sprint!
