---
sort: 16
---

# Week 5, Day 1: The Universal Workflow of Machine Learning 1

## 1) Review meeting at 10:00

We will review what you have learned so far and this week's material.

## 2) Introduction

So far we have focused on building and understanding deep learning models. But machine learning projects are much more than model development. Here is a general outline of the steps involved in a machine learning project:

1. Define the problem: This involves understanding the context in which the problem exists and determining the specific goals of the project.

2. Collect and explore data: The next step is to gather the data that will be used to train the machine learning model. It is important to explore the data to understand its characteristics and any patterns that might exist.

3. Preprocessing: Once the data has been collected, it needs to be cleaned and preprocessed in order to be used effectively in the machine learning model. This may involve things like handling missing values, normalizing features, and creating new features.

4. Train the model: The next step is to train the machine learning model on the prepared data. This involves selecting an appropriate algorithm, defining relevant hyperparameters, and training the model.

5. Evaluate the model:  Once the model has been trained, it is important to evaluate its performance to determine how well it is able to make predictions on unseen data. This is done by assesing its discrimination and calibration performance. Moreover, it is important to calculate confidence intervals, check model errors and assess bias.

6. Deploy the model: If the model's performance meets the desired criteria, it can be deployed in a production environment where it can be used to make predictions on new, unseen data.

7. Monitor and maintain the model: After deployment, it is important to monitor the model's performance and make any necessary updates to maintain its effectiveness over time.

ML projects are highly iterative.

## 3) Assignment

From the book [Deep Learning with Python](https://www.manning.com/books/deep-learning-with-python-second-edition):
- [ ] Chapter 6: The universal workflow of machine learning

## 4) The machine learning project lifecycle
Watch videos numbered 1-4.
Deployment will covered later therefore only watch V5 to have an idea.
W5D1 Quiz - The ML project lifecycle
Quiz time: https://forms.office.com/e/uqnxkGS9i2
